feat(): extract openapi to its own category (#1309)
nestjs/docs.nestjs.com: content/openapi/types-and-parameters.md

### Types and parameters

The `SwaggerModule` searches for all `@Body()`, `@Query()`, and `@Param()` decorators in route handlers to generate the API document. It also creates corresponding model definitions by taking advantage of reflection. Consider the following code:

```typescript
@Post()
async create(@Body() createCatDto: CreateCatDto) {
  this.catsService.create(createCatDto);
}
```

> > info **Hint** To explicitly set the body definition use the `@ApiBody()` decorator (`@nestjs/swagger` package).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> info **Hint** To explicitly set the body definition use the `@ApiBody()` decorator (imported from the `@nestjs/swagger` package).
```

> Based on the `CreateCatDto`, the module definition will be created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the `CreateCatDto`, the following model definition Swagger UI will be created:
```

<figure><img src="/assets/swagger-dto.png" /></figure>

> As you can see, the definition is empty although the class has a few declared properties. In order to make the class properties visible to the `SwaggerModule`, we have to either annotate them with the `@ApiProperty()` decorator or use a CLI plugin (read more in the **Plugin** section) which will do it automatically:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, the definition is empty although the class has a few declared properties. In order to make the class properties visible to the `SwaggerModule`, we have to either annotate them with the `@ApiProperty()` decorator or use the CLI plugin (read more in the **Plugin** section) which will do it automatically:
```

```typescript
import { ApiProperty } from '@nestjs/swagger';

export class CreateCatDto {
  @ApiProperty()
  name: string;

  @ApiProperty()
  age: number;

  @ApiProperty()
  breed: string;
}
```

> > info **Hint** Consider using the Swagger plugin (see [Plugin](/recipes/swagger#plugin) section) which will automatically do it for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> info **Hint** Instead of manually annotating each property, consider using the Swagger plugin (see [Plugin](/openapi/cli-plugin) section) which will automatically provide this for you.
```

Let's open the browser and verify the generated `CreateCatDto` model:

<figure><img src="/assets/swagger-dto2.png" /></figure>

In addition, the `@ApiProperty()` decorator allows setting various [Schema Object](https://swagger.io/specification/#schemaObject) properties:

```typescript
@ApiProperty({
  description: 'The age of a cat',
  minimum: 1,
  default: 1,
})
age: number;
```

> > info **Hint** Instead of explicitly typing the `{{"@ApiProperty({ required: false })"}}` you can use `@ApiPropertyOptional()` short-hand decorator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> info **Hint** Instead of explicitly typing the `{{"@ApiProperty({ required: false })"}}` you can use the `@ApiPropertyOptional()` short-hand decorator.
```

In order to explicitly set the type of the property, use the `type` key:

```typescript
@ApiProperty({
  type: Number,
})
age: number;
```

#### Arrays

When the property is an array, we must manually indicate the array type as shown below:

```typescript
@ApiProperty({ type: [String] })
names: string[];
```

> > info **Hint** Consider using the Swagger plugin (see [Plugin](/recipes/swagger#plugin) section) which will automatically detect arrays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> info **Hint** Consider using the Swagger plugin (see [Plugin](/openapi/cli-plugin) section) which will automatically detect arrays.
```

Either include the type as the first element of an array (as shown above) or set the `isArray` property to `true`.

<app-banner-enterprise></app-banner-enterprise>

#### Circular dependencies

When you have circular dependencies between classes, use a lazy function to provide the `SwaggerModule` with type information:

```typescript
@ApiProperty({ type: () => Node })
node: Node;
```

> > info **Hint** Consider using the Swagger plugin (see [Plugin](/recipes/swagger#plugin) section) which will automatically detect circular dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> info **Hint** Consider using the Swagger plugin (see [Plugin](/openapi/cli-plugin) section) which will automatically detect circular dependencies.
```

<figure><img src="/assets/enum_query_array.gif" /></figure>

#### Enums schema

By default, the `enum` property will add a raw definition of [Enum](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/data-models/enums/) on the `parameter`.

```yaml
- breed:
    type: 'string'
    enum:
      - Persian
      - Tabby
      - Siamese
```

The above specification works fine for most cases. However, if you are utilizing a tool that takes the specification as **input** and generates **client-side** code, you might run into a problem with the generated code containing duplicated `enums`. Consider the following code snippet:

```typescript
// generated client-side code
export class CatDetail {
  breed: CatDetailEnum;
}

export class CatInformation {
  breed: CatInformationEnum;
}

export enum CatDetailEnum {
  Persian = 'Persian',
  Tabby = 'Tabby',
  Siamese = 'Siamese',
}

export enum CatInformationEnum {
  Persian = 'Persian',
  Tabby = 'Tabby',
  Siamese = 'Siamese',
}
```

> info **Hint** The above snippet is generated using a tool called [NSwag](https://github.com/RicoSuter/NSwag).

You can see that now you have two `enums` that are exactly the same.

> To address this issue, you can pass an `enumName` next to `enum` property in your decorator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address this issue, you can pass an `enumName` along with the `enum` property in your decorator.
```

```typescript
export class CatDetail {
  @ApiProperty({ enum: CatBreed, enumName: 'CatBreed' })
  breed: CatBreed;
}
```

The `enumName` property enables `@nestjs/swagger` to turn `CatBreed` into its own `schema` which in turns makes `CatBreed` enum reusable. The specification will look like the following:

```yaml
CatDetail:
  type: 'object'
  properties:
    ...
    - breed:
        schema:
          $ref: '#/components/schemas/CatBreed'
CatBreed:
  type: string
  enum:
    - Persian
    - Tabby
    - Siamese
```

> info **Hint** Any **decorator** that takes `enum` as a property will also take `enumName`.

#### Raw definitions

> In some specific scenarios (e.g. deeply nested arrays, matrices), you may want to describe your type by hand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some specific scenarios (e.g., deeply nested arrays, matrices), you may want to describe your type by hand.
```

```typescript
@ApiProperty({
  type: 'array',
  items: {
    type: 'array',
    items: {
      type: 'number',
    },
  },
})
coords: number[][];
```

Likewise, in order to define your input/output content manually in controller classes, use the `schema` property:

```typescript
@ApiBody({
  schema: {
    type: 'array',
    items: {
      type: 'array',
      items: {
        type: 'number',
      },
    },
  },
})
async create(@Body() coords: number[][]) {}
```

#### Extra models

> In order to define additional models that should be inspected by Swagger module, use the `@ApiExtraModels()` decorator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define additional models that should be inspected by the Swagger module, use the `@ApiExtraModels()` decorator:
```

```typescript
@ApiExtraModels(ExtraModel)
export class CreateCatDto {}
```

Then, you can get the reference (`$ref`) to your model using `getSchemaPath(ExtraModel)`:

```typescript
'application/vnd.api+json': {
   schema: { $ref: getSchemaPath(ExtraModel) },
},
```

#### oneOf, anyOf, allOf

> In order to combine schemas, you can use `oneOf`, `anyOf` or `allOf` keywords ([read more](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/data-models/oneof-anyof-allof-not/)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To combine schemas, you can use the `oneOf`, `anyOf` or `allOf` keywords ([read more](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/data-models/oneof-anyof-allof-not/)).
```

```typescript
@ApiProperty({
  oneOf: [
    { $ref: getSchemaPath(Cat) },
    { $ref: getSchemaPath(Dog) },
  ],
})
pet: Cat | Dog;
```

If you want to define a polymorphic array (i.e., an array whose members span multiple schemas), you should use a raw definition (see above) to define your type by hand.

```typescript
type Pet = Cat | Dog;

@ApiProperty({
  type: 'array',
  items: {
    oneOf: [
      { $ref: getSchemaPath(Cat) },
      { $ref: getSchemaPath(Dog) },
    ],
  },
})
pets: Pet[];
```

> > info **Hint** `getSchemaPath()` function is imported from `@nestjs/swagger`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> info **Hint** The `getSchemaPath()` function is imported from `@nestjs/swagger`.
```
